src/src_learner/README.md, before:

# Welcome to the learner microservice documentation!

The learner microservice provides the core logic of highlighting for the whole
application.

## Architecture and Programming Languages

The learner microservice consists of the following components:

### The Flask Endpoints: flask_enpoints.py

Provides RESTful endpoints that wrap the functionalities such as predicting and
finetuning for the languages python, kotlin and java.

### The highlighting script: highlight.py

Implements the predict and finetune functionality using the BaseLearner and
FormalModel. Highlighting the input requests is done using the 'predict'
function. It stores the input request for future training/testing and returns
the highlighted tokens from the 'base_model' for the language. Finetuning is
done usingthe 'finetune' function. If there are a minimum number of training
samples (to be set as 100), the training and test sets are loaded and the
samples are checked for over laps with any archived training or test samples
using the helper functions 'load_training_set', 'load_test_set' and
'check_overlap'. Then, the 'finetuning_model' is trained on the training set and
its accuracy is compared with the 'base_model' on the test set using a helper
function called check_accuracy. If the 'finetuning_model' has a higher accuracy
than the 'base_model', it replaces the 'base_model' (helper function -
'exchange_models'), and the training and test sets are archived (helper
function - 'archive_training_samples').

### helper script: persist_model.py

From time to time, the weights of the model that is currently used for
prediction get swapped with the weights of the finetuned model. This process is
implemented in the update_model.py which also uses the accuracy_check.py for
this. The persist_model.py class can be used to persist the weights on lightsail
via an S3 container.

### FormalModel

This statistical model for syntax highlighting was provided to us as a black-box
model. It is included as the java library 'SHOracle.jar'. "This Java library
allows for the formal computation of syntax highlighting patterns of input
programs. Hence, syntax highlighting is computed by analysing the Abstract
Syntax Tree (AST) corresponding to the input provided. Although for the
derivation of the AST some minor imprecision are allowed, a high level of
grammatical errors in the language derivation provided will lead this process to
fail gracefully. The library supports Java (1.8 or later), Python (3.x or later)
and Kotlin (1.x or later)." Source for more details -
https://github.com/MEPalma/UZH-ASE-AnnotationWS-FormalModel

### BaseLearner

This deep learning model for syntax highlighting implements a bidirectional RNN
with an embedding layer and a hidden layer of dimensions 128 and 32
respectively. It was provided to us a black-box model. It is included as the
python script 'SHModelUtils.py'. Source for more details -
https://github.com/MEPalma/UZH-ASE-AnnotationWS-BaseLearner

### .pt files

Save the weights of the trained models. Weights that are currently used for
prediction are saved in files with the "base" tag. Weights that currently
finetuned are saved in files with the "finetuning" tag.

## Motivation for used Technologies

The FormalModel and BaseLearner are written in the programming languages Java
and Python. Since we considered these two applications as blackboxes, we did not
change anything about their respective implementation. Instead, we decided to
make the functionalities of these two applications accessible via a standardised
interface. As most of our team members are familiar with Python, we decided to
write the interface in Python. For the endpoints itself we used the popular
framework "Flask" as the framework is easy to use and has an extensive
documentation. The highlight and finetuning functionalities were implemented
with the help of JPype, a Python module that enables access to Java libraries
from within Python. We decided to use JPype because it is easy to use,
well-documented, and allows us to use the provided FormalModel library in Java
from within our Python components. We also used the boto3 software-development
kit for the persistence of the model weights (the .pt files), as this is the
official SDK provided by AWS for the interaction with its cloud services such as
the stoarge service s3. For testing, we used the unittest library of the Python
since we were familiar with it and it is easy to use. For logging we implemented
the error logging functionality for PHP code and for the python code. Whenever
an error in the input is detected, an error log file is created which with some
information about the error such as time, error message received, etc. This
would help the users detect why the program might not have worked with a certain
input.

## Core Functionalities

- Highlighting of the Java, Python and Kotlin Code via a neural network (the
  BaseLearner with .pt base weights)
- Finetuning of a copy of the neural network (BaseLearner with .pt finetuning
  weights)
- Model update by replacing the base weights with the finetuning weights if the
  finetuning weights pass a certain accuracy threshhold
- Accuracy checking functionality: collects files which have not been used for
  training and assesses model accuracy based on these files
- Weights can be persisted via an S3 bucket when microservice is running in the
  cloud

## Requests

Requests are handled via a RESTful Flask API. The following core requests are
available:

/predict

Args: code_to_format: code that should be formatted language: language the code
is in. possible values: python, java, kotlin

/finetune

Args: code_to_format: code that should be formatted language: language the code
is in. possible values: python, java, kotlin

For more info, see the documentation of flask_endpoints.py

## Tests

The unittests for the learner microservice can be found in the folder tests.
They are written with the help of pythons built-in library "unittest". The tests
can be run with the following command:

python -m unittest discover /src/tests

## Run the Microservice

There are three possibilities to run the learner microservice.

Via Docker:

Create a new image for the dockerfile provided in the src_learner folder. Start
the container and interact with the application by sending requests to
http://localhost:5000/.

Via Local Machine:

Please make shure you have Python version 3.9 and Java version 17.0.2 installed.
Also make shure to install all Python packages that are specified in the
requirements.txt file. After that, you can start the application locally by
running the "flask_endpoints.py" file and sending requests to
http://localhost:9070/

Via the Cloud:

The endpoints of this container are not publicly available on the deployed
version on lightsail as users interact with the application via the php
endpoints.

## Documentation

TODO

Commit message:

Update README.md with training and testing specs for base_model files

src/src_learner/README.md, after:

# Welcome to the learner microservice documentation!

The learner microservice provides the core logic of highlighting for the whole
application.

## Architecture and Programming Languages

The learner microservice consists of the following components:

### The Flask Endpoints: flask_enpoints.py

Provides RESTful endpoints that wrap the functionalities such as predicting and
finetuning for the languages python, kotlin and java.

### The highlighting script: highlight.py

Implements the predict and finetune functionality using the BaseLearner and
FormalModel. Highlighting the input requests is done using the 'predict'
function. It stores the input request for future training/testing and returns
the highlighted tokens from the 'base_model' for the language. Finetuning is
done usingthe 'finetune' function. If there are a minimum number of training
samples (set as 100), the training and test sets are loaded and the
samples are checked for over laps with any archived training or test samples
using the helper functions 'load_training_set', 'load_test_set' and
'check_overlap'. Then, the 'finetuning_model' is trained on the training set and
its accuracy is compared with the 'base_model' on the test set using a helper
function called check_accuracy. If the 'finetuning_model' has a higher accuracy
than the 'base_model', it replaces the 'base_model' (helper function -
'exchange_models'), and the training and test sets are archived (helper
function - 'archive_training_samples').

### helper script: persist_model.py

From time to time, the weights of the model that is currently used for
prediction get swapped with the weights of the finetuned model. This process is
implemented in the update_model.py which also uses the accuracy_check.py for
this. The persist_model.py class can be used to persist the weights on lightsail
via an S3 container.

### FormalModel

This statistical model for syntax highlighting was provided to us as a black-box
model. It is included as the java library 'SHOracle.jar'. "This Java library
allows for the formal computation of syntax highlighting patterns of input
programs. Hence, syntax highlighting is computed by analysing the Abstract
Syntax Tree (AST) corresponding to the input provided. Although for the
derivation of the AST some minor imprecision are allowed, a high level of
grammatical errors in the language derivation provided will lead this process to
fail gracefully. The library supports Java (1.8 or later), Python (3.x or later)
and Kotlin (1.x or later)." Source for more details -
https://github.com/MEPalma/UZH-ASE-AnnotationWS-FormalModel

### BaseLearner

This deep learning model for syntax highlighting implements a bidirectional RNN
with an embedding layer and a hidden layer of dimensions 128 and 32
respectively. It was provided to us a black-box model. It is included as the
python script 'SHModelUtils.py'. Source for more details -
https://github.com/MEPalma/UZH-ASE-AnnotationWS-BaseLearner

### .pt files

These are the saved weights of the trained models. Weights that are currently
used for prediction are saved in files with the "base" tag. Weights that
currently finetuned are saved in files with the "finetuning" tag.
The 'base_model' files have been trained and tested with the following
specifications for each language:
- Python: Trained with 100k files downloaded from the 150k Python
dataset available [here] (https://www.sri.inf.ethz.ch/py150).
The model was then tested with the 50k files in the test set, giving an
accuracy of 99.898%.
- Java: Trained with 48,000 .java files randomly selected from public repositories
in the first 20 pages for the topic "Java" on GitHub and filtered for java language
(https://github.com/topics/java?l=java).
The model was then tested with 5000 .java files randomly selected from the same
source and gave an accuracy of 99.841%.
- Kotlin: Trained with 48,000 .kt and .kts files randomly selected from public
repositories in the first 20 pages for the topic "Kotlin" on GitHub and filtered
for kotlin language (https://github.com/topics/kotlin?l=kotlin). The model was
then tested with 5000 .kt and .kts files randomly selected from the same source
and gave an accuracy of 99.603%.

All the training and test files were checked for duplicate token sequences to
ensure there is no overfitting, and no overlap between training and test sets.
Due to the high accuracy achieved in the first epoch itself, training was done
only for one epoch.

## Motivation for used Technologies

The FormalModel and BaseLearner are written in the programming languages Java
and Python. Since we considered these two applications as blackboxes, we did not
change anything about their respective implementation. Instead, we decided to
make the functionalities of these two applications accessible via a standardised
interface. As most of our team members are familiar with Python, we decided to
write the interface in Python. For the endpoints itself we used the popular
framework "Flask" as the framework is easy to use and has an extensive
documentation. The highlight and finetuning functionalities were implemented
with the help of JPype, a Python module that enables access to Java libraries
from within Python. We decided to use JPype because it is easy to use,
well-documented, and allows us to use the provided FormalModel library in Java
from within our Python components. We also used the boto3 software-development
kit for the persistence of the model weights (the .pt files), as this is the
official SDK provided by AWS for the interaction with its cloud services such as
the stoarge service s3. For testing, we used the unittest library of the Python
since we were familiar with it and it is easy to use. For logging we implemented
the error logging functionality for PHP code and for the python code. Whenever
an error in the input is detected, an error log file is created which with some
information about the error such as time, error message received, etc. This
would help the users detect why the program might not have worked with a certain
input.

## Core Functionalities

- Highlighting of the Java, Python and Kotlin Code via a neural network (the
  BaseLearner with .pt base weights)
- Finetuning of a copy of the neural network (BaseLearner with .pt finetuning
  weights)
- Model update by replacing the base weights with the finetuning weights if the
  finetuning weights pass a certain accuracy threshhold
- Accuracy checking functionality: collects files which have not been used for
  training and assesses model accuracy based on these files
- Weights can be persisted via an S3 bucket when microservice is running in the
  cloud

## Requests

Requests are handled via a RESTful Flask API. The following core requests are
available:

/predict

Args: code_to_format: code that should be formatted language: language the code
is in. possible values: python, java, kotlin

/finetune

Args: code_to_format: code that should be formatted language: language the code
is in. possible values: python, java, kotlin

For more info, see the documentation of flask_endpoints.py

## Tests

The unittests for the learner microservice can be found in the folder tests.
They are written with the help of pythons built-in library "unittest". The tests
can be run with the following command:

python -m unittest discover /src/tests

## Run the Microservice

There are three possibilities to run the learner microservice.

Via Docker:

Create a new image for the dockerfile provided in the src_learner folder. Start
the container and interact with the application by sending requests to
http://localhost:5000/.

Via Local Machine:

Please make shure you have Python version 3.9 and Java version 17.0.2 installed.
Also make shure to install all Python packages that are specified in the
requirements.txt file. After that, you can start the application locally by
running the "flask_endpoints.py" file and sending requests to
http://localhost:9070/

Via the Cloud:

The endpoints of this container are not publicly available on the deployed
version on lightsail as users interact with the application via the php
endpoints.

## Documentation

TODO
